The Joe Rogan experience. This is a, oh,
do we even introduce you properly? No.
Okay. That was Justin.
I think we did introduce it to Mike Tyson.
Ladies and gentlemen. No, these guys,
because I'm a Greenbrae and I got hurt. And you saw the show last night.
So I'm speaking at the shows cause a sturgeon is, well, let me back up.
I got blown up in March and I was in the hospital. Previous year.
I'd come off of a deployment,
had like 11 months before the second one was a bit down in the,
down in the dumps, got divorced, had a dude die in the first trip.
So it was kind of like Lou was real rough to deal with.
And then it was listening to these dudes quite a bit and then led into the next
deployment. I was there month. Boom almost died, pretty hard. Um,
teammate saved me and, uh, we had blood on the ground. Like I got blood on,
on target. And then they made a hellacious movement to get me to the medivac,
long story short, I'm eating dinner in the hospital.
One of the first meals jamming out to these dudes. And I was like, mom,
I want wanna, I want to meet Sturgill Simpson.
And then she tried to get ahold of them. So calm eventually did.
And he came, hung out for like two hours. Uh, I made,
uh, my friend now general Baudette wait,
like 15 minutes so that we could finish talking about what we were talking
about, which when you're, when you're an enlisted dude,
you don't make generals Wade. But I was on a lot of ketamine sows. It was sweet.
But, uh, then, uh, Stargell had it,
had it on his own accord to like donate to the foundation.
So this little tour going on that coincides with the actual album release is
donating to the special forces foundation. So, um,
that helps gold star families,
which are the families that remained of the remainder of the friends that got
killed on this trip. Uh,
so there were four green Berets into EOD techs and uh,
so that money's going to them and that's, that's what I care about.
I don't like I'm alive.
I don't have any legs below my knees for those that can't,
I can't see my legs on the video anyway, but,
and I don't have my testicles either. So that's a different set of challenges,
but I don't care about getting taken care of other than the normal army
processes, but I want them to get taken care of from the foundation.
So I'm grateful to have these guys as friends now. They're awesome.
They're amazing musicians, but amazing people.
And then I'm grateful to be here and just to push that out.
So people that are coming to the shows,
all that money goes to the foundation and then people can go on the foundation's
website, which is special forces foundation.org. And, uh,
yeah, I appreciate it. That's awesome, man. That's really.
Really, really cool. That's really cool that you're doing this. And um,
and thank you for coming here and telling everybody is, you know, this is, um,
it's a great way to, it's a great way to help out and,
and your music, you know, to, to connect it to that.
I think that's, that's just a incredible thing. It's really cool. You know,
when you sending me the text messages telling me that you were going to the
hospital, you know, it's, it's very touching it's.
It was like, uh, yeah.
Yeah, you were.
You know, you could tell you were seriously moved by this and you know,
for someone like you truly understands the consequences of war,
like the physical consequences in a way that none of us will understand,
you know, it's, it's very, not just,
it's brave of you to talk about this, but it's also, it's so, so valuable,
so valuable for everybody that hasn't served to,
to understand what it really is. So thank you for that. Well.
I always say I really like combat cause I was in a lot of it. Uh,
relatively speaking, a bunch of guys have been in way more combat.
Bunch of people treated more casualties. I'm a medic,
but I was in a fair amount, almost got killed on the first trip,
a good handful of times. And then, uh, so I just don't like the war aspect.
When you see your friends get killed and uh,
you're stuck in a hospital bed on top of all this stuff. That's, you know,
I didn't for a week. I blood for a week.
I've had tons of nights of excruciating pain.
That's the life of an amputee or they're guys that are worse than me.
So I'm just grateful for having what I have. And uh,
yeah, that's the beginning of it. Like,
especially on ketamine when you're going through all that.
And you're just like I was telling like the people that took the trash out in
the room, like, Hey, I'm grateful for it. Your brother like.
Shred on brother. What.
Is, uh, what is ketamine like after a catastrophic injury like that?
Does it relieve the pain? Does it just put you in another dimension?
So ketamine is, uh, an MDs sucker. Yeah. Ketamine is, uh,
an NBA antagonist and the brain. So essentially is a dissociative.
So the way that it feels,
because we learned this in class as a medic and everything,
but the way that it feels is kind of,
it takes your perspective. And it's like,
it always felt like a whirlwind when they, if I was getting a push of it,
but things it's like, you're starting to get your vision masked and, uh,
you're present. You're still there, but you're dipping into like subconscious,
cause you're still conscious because unconscious would mean that you're like you
pass out and you can not have a gag reflex depending on how unconscious you are.
So, uh, ketamine,
I would close my eyes and immediately tripped the most insane balls that you
could imagine and open them and it'd be back in the room and I'd be like,
what the? Whoa. And then a friend of mine, uh,
when I left my first rotation,
he was an air force CCT that got blown up in the same village.
I had a few casualties in, uh, he stepped in ID,
he's an above the knee, some missing fingers. But when he was ketamine,
when he was awake and looking around, he'd see the walls on fire.
And then there'd be like women like white pale skin in the corners,
peeling the skin off their back. And he was like, I was like, do that.
W like whatever, I don't know.
It must be like someone's psychology when they go in like set and setting type
thing. But I was in it when I got a lot of ketamine. My legs were blown off.
I'm getting worked on, I'm telling dudes how to treat me.
I cut my own shirt off and then I get the ketamine and I'm like in and out.
And I see these visions back and forth. And like I was convinced,
I was that are two distinct moments. I was like,
I'm not going to make it and had that conversation. So,
and what's surreal about this right here is that you were talking to
him on this show and you guys talked about combat medics, and you were like, ah,
and I just sing in key. And I was like, right on there talking about me.
And then I got all kinds of jacked up,
makes you appreciate, makes you appreciate life.
And I've gone through a huge development last year through depression.
And then this year after this blast of like being grateful and like
do an introspection and communicating and having empathy for other people and
being kind of a passionate human,
which general Mattis has told us a group of us on the way back from my first
trip. It's like,
don't let this experience of war make you more hateful human being because
people haven't experienced it.
And let it allow yourself to go through post traumatic growth and become a
better human being and treat other people like you want to be treated and treat.
And I would add on to that, which came from Tim Ferris,
treat yourself the way you treat other people too.
Not a side of madness that you ever hear in the press. Huh?
I suppose not that thing that would be very valuable for people.
They know that he thinks that way. That's a,
it's a very powerful way to view this inevitable,
the inevitable consequences of it or.
That that started scraping me off the bottom to focus on that
after that trip. Yeah. Academy.
Is a weird one because, um,
a lot of people do it recreationally and apparently they,
they blast off and go into other dimensions and and they go into keyholes and I
never did it. I never tried it. I knew a dude who died from it.
He was really into it. It's doing it a lot. W what happened?
I don't like an infection. He, I know he, um,
he probably was doing a bunch of other things as well,
but he was getting treated for ketamine for addiction.
And then he wound up tying.
You can dose the at academy. Yeah. You couldn't, it doesn't kill you.
You can give a kid 300 megs of it and they will trip
balls, but they are going to, they're not going to die.
It's like the opposite of all the other drugs.
I think he was doing other too.
I think the ketamine was just something he was treated for.
I think he was doing a bunch of speed and stuff too, which, uh,
it's um, ketamine was originally like,
isn't it a cat tranquilizer or something like that. They give it to.
My wife's best. Friend's a veterinarian.
She definitely is like Jack and animals with ketamine on.
It's. It's increasing now in like civilian hospitals,
we started as like a veterinarian drug, which, I mean, it works great.
And you combine it with some other stuff. Do you know who John Lilly is?
No. John John Lily was the scientist that he was a pioneer in interspecies
communication.
He did all this work with dolphins and he was also a big acid freak.
And he would like to take,
he would take acid and try to communicate with dolphins.
He allegedly give dolphins acid. He was a part of his long program,
tried to get dolphins to talk to him. But, uh, one of the things he invented.
It was not a movie about there is altered states.
Altered states based a lot on John Lilly.
Cause he invented the sensor sensory deprivation.
And give the dolphins acid the movie, because.
It just was loosely based on him because in the movie,
the guy experiments with a bunch of different types of sensory deprivation
tanks. And everybody knew that this guy, he was a legitimate doctor,
a brilliant guy, but he was also a ketamine freak.
And one thing he would do is like you would take intramuscular, ketamine,
and then get into the sensory deprivation tank. Oh yeah. That'd be,
that's a double whammy week. Yeah. A double whammy. So is that stuff,
um, difficult to get off of, or do you have to worry about that? Is there, uh,
like a withdrawal symptom? The.
Issue would be with the pain.
It's like when you have something that's controlling some sort of level of pain
and then coming off of that, you usually wean off of it.
But then a physical addiction issue,
you know, I should know the answer to that definitively, but as, as a medic,
but, uh, I haven't heard of anything that words card to come off of. They.
Had you on other stuff way harder to come off. Oh yeah.
I was on methadone and uh, stodgill friends,
shooter and Duff McKagan came to the hospital and Duff was like,
methadone is worse than heroin. Like,
cause it was GNR guys were rocking it in the eighties, but that was like,
I mean, one night, one week I dropped down 20 MIGS instead of the 10.
And it was like being a junkie, like for nine hours,
I was just like rubbing my legs. Like, whoa.
Cause they're just lit up with nerve pain.
It feels like there's daggers in your leg or some sort of electrocution.
And you look like on a movie with like someone cracked out or something.
I was just like rubbing my.
We used to see these guys who would come into the pool hall.
When I used to play pool in white Plains, they would come in,
there was a methadone clinic down the street and they were all heroin,
heroin people. And uh, my friend,
Johnny B would call them methadone aliens because they would come in and they
all had like this like sort of like dull shuffle to them.
They were all slowed down and I can never understand it. It was like,
I was like, is this like a culturally, like, did someone agree?
Did we make some sort of agreement? Like this is okay, this is, it's got,
you know, it's got some, some stamp of approval.
So we're accepting that they have to get methadone every day,
but they can't get heroin anymore. Why don't we just give them heroin?
Like is how much different is the methadone? Is the methadone get them high.
With synthesize. So it's easier to control, but does it get them high?
I didn't have any effect while no, it's just fighting off the physiology.
So it just fights the physiology. They're not getting it.
You'll never get highlighted the first time you spike or like.
Narcotic. Yeah. For like the other, the adverse effects. Why don't.
People have like the best effects with like ibogaine and things like that when
it comes to.
For getting kicking opiates? Yeah. I mean, if you want to go through that,
I would say, you know, that would probably be your best,
but it for a quick solution, if that's what you mean, like the methadone.
Is like, it is actually bad for you, isn't it? Yes.
It your S I didn't sleep. I didn't have deep sleep for four months.
And I was, I'd go to get in bed at nine,
not fall asleep till three in the morning.
That with everything too. Yeah.
It's a pretty year.
And how long did it take to get you off of the methadone?
I mean, once you're off of it,
that their doctors are saying that it stays in your adipose tissue,
which is your fat for like two or three weeks,
because I'd have random nights when I was off of it and just get lit up with
nerve pain. And like, I'm getting hit with a hammer on my toes. Um,
so probably four to probably like six weeks of weaning that.
And then I waited another drug, Erica.
I mean, for you, it had to feel, I mean,
cause you were there at Walter Reed the whole time. You had to feel frustrated.
But for some, I like my first time I came to see you and it was only what,
what a month after the blast at most.
So he was still in a lot of more pain than I could even
comprehend somebody being in, you know, from nerve pain for like how many,
how many surgeries on each leg?
Uh, it's close to 30 surgeries total. Which, yeah.
Is it stable as in your back to where they taking?
I mean, you, you described just man, I was just like, how can anybody, you know,
and then he was still, as he said, the first time we met,
he was highest giraffe balls on academy. But like I was,
I was profoundly impressed by even then,
like how clear-headed and articulate.
And I was obviously this guy's obviously brilliant. You know what I mean?
Like you can just through the fog and awareness of everything going on in the
room, despite the faint, the pain, he was trying to pretend like he wasn't in,
I just, and then that place was full of guys like him and every,
and then when I went back, it's like all new faces, you know, these people.
But then when I went back, the second time I went see him,
was there a couple of days. And it was like, just in a matter of short time,
it was leaps and bounds and you're using the gym on one leg,
like busting out 20 pull-ups and everything, you know, it was just kinda like,
there's gotta be something we can,
anything you can do to help in whatever way. And these guys,
since I've known him, I've never once ever heard him ask for anything.
His only concerns were like for the families of the guys that,
that didn't make it, you know?
So that's just like really where around an album release.
If I'm going to have a bunch of attention on me,
I thought it would be a good opportunity to put attention on what other people
can do to help these guys and their families. Because you know, the sacrifices,
especially sitting in these rooms and looking at these dudes, man, I can't even,
you can't.
You know, what, what do you, what do you call that? Yeah,
well, I want to help. So, uh, after the show, let's, uh,
figure out what we can do to jump in. I want to, I want to help. So, uh,
help with the podcast help with some comedy shows maybe to just whatever we can
do. I appreciate that. Um, you know, listen, I'm blown away by all this.
As much as I think all these people are listening and watching this is, um,
it's beautiful that you're doing this man. And I think that, you know, I mean,
it's inspiring me to do something.
I think it's probably inspiring a bunch of other people. And that's, that's,
that's those things that people talk about.
One thing that you might experience or hear in life that sort of changes your
worldview and moves you in a better direction. Like this is,
this could be one of those things, you know?
Well, you're a good man. Yeah. Well, I'm not anything, man. He's
so I'm just a dude.
Well, you're just an awesome dude. All you guys. It's cool.
I'm very happy that you're bringing awareness to this.
I'm really happy that you do on that. It makes me feel great.
And it's, you know, like Justin said that the worst side of it is the,
the tragedy, I guess. Um, so it's not like, you know, right or left.
It's just like, this is the reality of it.
And people are making these sacrifices for you. And then when they come home,
what do we do for them? You know.
It's a hard thought for people to accept that war is inevitable.
So a hard thought,
and it doesn't seem like it's inevitable because it's not inevitable in this
room. I mean,
if we were the last people on earth and there was a bunch of food and places to
sleep, I think we'd probably not kill each other.
We probably wouldn't go to war. Right. It's like,
what is the number where you go to war? Is it a million? Is it 2 million?
Is it separated by oceans? Is it just mountains are boundaries.
But the fact that no one thinks that war can be solved. Like no,
no one that I know thinks that in our lifetime there'll be no war.
Then there's never been a period where it's someone on earth, that's human.
Hasn't been going to war with each other.
It's a horrible truth of being a person.
And nobody, nobody knows it the way you do.
So for you to come on and tell your story the way you just did.
I appreciate the out of that, man. And
I would just want people.
If, if, if they hear that and that moves them, it's more of like a,
I could just be a grateful on a regular basis for what? For anything. Yeah.
I mean, Steven Pinker was on your show.
I ended up FaceTiming with him as a result of all this,
but like he has that book about basically the,
the enlightenment worked and we still have war.
And then there are people still fighting it. Uh,
but overall the world is continuing to improve and like steadily getting
better. And fewer people are dying from genocide and war, but it still exists.
So I would want the respect for war. If someone is wanting to go to war,
you know, if someone is going to be a commander in chief and that's it,
that's a heavy thing to like toss back and forth is extremely,
it means that I may never have kids cause I don't have my balls. You know? Like,
like that there's sacrifice. Like I, I,
and I'm the one that lived and I didn't have any kids,
but like my friends have four girls. My other, my other friend has three kids.
So like when you're, if you're going to move the chess piece to war,
then we need to understand the implications of what that means and try to do
everything in political power,
in state strategy to avoid over war because.
It's especially near peer.
You mean that's Russia or Russia, nuclear.
War would be the worst thing. You know, it's a mess world, war three, mutually.
Assured destruction.
It was the strangest thing on earth that we all have enough weapons pointed at
each other to literally nuke every man,
woman and child off the face of the earth, many times over.
And that's what keeps us from using them.
But yet we still have them and we still have them pointed at each other.
I mean, remember when you were kids and we were worried about Russia,
do you remember that? I'm older.
Guys. And I'm worried about people walking into target with a suicide vest.
Yeah. Yeah. When's that coming, right? Yeah. You could all of it
because Europe's been dealing with that for decades. You know,
we really haven't tasted that yet. I on a,
on a widespread habitual scale.
[Inaudible].